“We must decide ’ow you will be disguised, ’Arry,” said Fleur, once
everyone had pudding. “For ze wedding,”
she added, when he looked confused. “Of course,
none of our guests are Death Eaters, but we cannot
guarantee zat zey will not let something slip after zey
’ave ’ad champagne.”
From this, Harry gathered that she still suspected
Hagrid.
“Yes, good point,” said Mrs. Weasley from the top of
the table, where she sat, spectacles perched on the
end of her nose, scanning an immense list of jobs that
she had scribbled on a very long piece of parchment.
“Now, Ron, have you cleaned out your room yet?”
“Why?” exclaimed Ron, slamming his spoon down and
glaring at his mother. “Why does my room have to be
cleaned out? Harry and I are fine with it the way it is!”
“We are holding your brother’s wedding here in a few
days’ time, young man —”
“And are they getting married in my bedroom?” asked
Ron furiously. “No! So why in the name of Merlin’s
saggy left —”
“Don’t talk to your mother like that,” said Mr. Weasley
firmly. “And do as you’re told.”
Ron scowled at both his parents, then picked up his
spoon and attacked the last few mouthfuls of his
apple tart.
“I can help, some of it’s my mess,” Harry told Ron,
but Mrs. Weasley cut across him.
“No, Harry, dear, I’d much rather you helped Arthur
muck out the chickens, and Hermione, I’d be ever so
grateful if you’d change the sheets for Monsieur and Madame Delacour;
you know they’re arriving at
eleven tomorrow morning.”
But as it turned out, there was very little to do for the
chickens. “There’s no need to, er, mention it to Molly,”
Mr. Weasley told Harry, blocking his access to the
coop, “but, er, Ted Tonks sent me most of what was
left of Sirius’s bike and, er, I’m hiding — that’s to say,
keeping — it in here. Fantastic stuff: There’s an
exhaust gaskin, as I believe it’s called, the most
magnificent battery, and it’ll be a great opportunity to
find out how brakes work. I’m going to try and put it
all back together again when Molly’s not — I mean,
when I’ve got time.”
When they returned to the house, Mrs. Weasley was
nowhere to be seen, so Harry slipped upstairs to
Ron’s attic bedroom.
“I’m doing it, I’m doing — ! Oh, it’s you,” said Ron in
relief, as Harry entered the room. Ron lay back down
on the bed, which he had evidently just vacated. The
room was just as messy as it had been all week; the
only change was that Hermione was now sitting in the
far corner, her fluffy ginger cat, Crookshanks, at her
feet, sorting books, some of which Harry recognized
as his own, into two enormous piles.
“Hi, Harry,” she said, as he sat down on his camp
bed.
“And how did you manage to get away?”
“Oh, Ron’s mum forgot that she asked Ginny and me
to change the sheets yesterday,” said Hermione. She
threw Numerology and Grammatica onto one pile and
The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts onto the other.
“We were just talking about Mad-Eye,” Ron told
Harry. “I reckon he might have survived.”
“But Bill saw him hit by the Killing Curse,” said
Harry.
“Yeah, but Bill was under attack too,” said Ron. “How
can he be sure what he saw?”
“Even if the Killing Curse missed, Mad-Eye still fell
about a thousand feet,” said Hermione, now weighing
Quidditch Teams of Britain and Ireland in her hand.
“He could have used a Shield Charm —”
“Fleur said his wand was blasted out of his hand,”
said Harry.
“Well, all right, if you want him to be dead,” said Ron
grumpily, punching his pillow into a more
comfortable shape.
“Of course we don’t want him to be dead!” said
Hermione, looking shocked. “It’s dreadful that he’s
dead! But we’re being realistic!”
For the first time, Harry imagined Mad-Eye’s body,
broken as Dumbledore’s had been, yet with that one
eye still whizzing in its socket. He felt a stab of
revulsion mixed with a bizarre desire to laugh.
“The Death Eaters probably tidied up after
themselves, that’s why no one’s found him,” said Ron
wisely.
“Yeah,” said Harry. “Like Barty Crouch, turned into a
bone and buried in Hagrid’s front garden. They
probably transfigured Moody and stuffed him —”
“Don’t!” squealed Hermione. Startled, Harry looked
over just in time to see her burst into tears over her
copy of Spellman’s Syllabary.
“Oh no,” said Harry, struggling to get up from the old
camp bed. “Hermione, I wasn’t trying to upset —”
But with a great creaking of rusty bedsprings, Ron
bounded off the bed and got there first. One arm
around Hermione, he fished in his jeans pocket and
withdrew a revolting-looking handkerchief that he
had used to clean out the oven earlier. Hastily pulling
out his wand, he pointed it at the rag and said,
“Tergeo. ”
The wand siphoned off most of the grease. Looking
rather pleased with himself, Ron handed the slightly
smoking handkerchief to Hermione.
“Oh … thanks, Ron. … I’m sorry. …” She blew her
nose and hiccuped. “It’s just so awf-ful, isn’t it? Rright after Dumbledore … I j-just n-never imagined
Mad-Eye dying, somehow, he seemed so tough!”
“Yeah, I know,” said Ron, giving her a squeeze. “But
you know what he’d say to us if he was here?”
“ ‘C-constant vigilance,’ ” said Hermione, mopping her
eyes.
“That’s right,” said Ron, nodding. “He’d tell us to learn
from what happened to him. And what I’ve learned is
not to trust that cowardly little squit, Mundungus.”
Hermione gave a shaky laugh and leaned forward to
pick up two more books. A second later, Ron had
snatched his arm back from around her shoulders;
she had dropped The Monster Book of Monsters on his
foot. The book had broken free from its restraining belt and snapped
viciously at Ron’s ankle.
“I’m sorry, I’m sorry!” Hermione cried as Harry
wrenched the book from Ron’s leg and retied it shut.
“What are you doing with all those books anyway?”
Ron asked, limping back to his bed.
“Just trying to decide which ones to take with us,”
said Hermione. “When we’re looking for the
Horcruxes.”
“Oh, of course,” said Ron, clapping a hand to his
forehead. “I forgot we’ll be hunting down Voldemort in
a mobile library.”
“Ha ha,” said Hermione, looking down at Spellman’s
Syllabary. “I wonder … will we need to translate
runes? It’s possible. … I think we’d better take it, to
be safe.”
She dropped the syllabary onto the larger of the two
piles and picked up Hogwarts, A History.
“Listen,” said Harry.
He had sat up straight. Ron and Hermione looked at
him with similar mixtures of resignation and defiance.
“I know you said after Dumbledore’s funeral that you
wanted to come with me,” Harry began.
“Here he goes,” Ron said to Hermione, rolling his eyes.
“As we knew he would,” she sighed, turning back to
the books. “You know, I think I will take Hogwarts, A
History. Even if we’re not going back there, I don’t
think I’d feel right if I didn’t have it with —”
“Listen!” said Harry again.
“No, Harry, you listen,” said Hermione. “We’re coming
with you. That was decided months ago — years,
really.”
“But —”
“Shut up,” Ron advised him.
“— are you sure you’ve thought this through?” Harry
persisted.
“Let’s see,” said Hermione, slamming Travels with
Trolls onto the discarded pile with a rather fierce look.
“I’ve been packing for days, so we’re ready to leave at
a moment’s notice, which for your information has
included doing some pretty difficult magic, not to
mention smuggling Mad-Eye’s whole stock of
Polyjuice Potion right under Ron’s mum’s nose.
“I’ve also modified my parents’ memories so that
they’re convinced they’re really called Wendell and
Monica Wilkins, and that their life’s ambition is to
move to Australia, which they have now done. That’s
to make it more difficult for Voldemort to track them
down and interrogate them about me — or you,
because unfortunately, I’ve told them quite a bit
about you.
“Assuming I survive our hunt for the Horcruxes, I’ll
find Mum and Dad and lift the enchantment. If I don’t
— well, I think I’ve cast a good enough charm to keep
them safe and happy. Wendell and Monica Wilkins
don’t know that they’ve got a daughter, you see.”
Hermione’s eyes were swimming with tears again. Ron
got back off the bed, put his arm around her once
more, and frowned at Harry as though reproaching
him for lack of tact. Harry could not think of anything to say, not least
because it was highly unusual for
Ron to be teaching anyone else tact.
“I — Hermione, I’m sorry — I didn’t —”
“Didn’t realize that Ron and I know perfectly well
what might happen if we come with you? Well, we do.
Ron, show Harry what you’ve done.”
“Nah, he’s just eaten,” said Ron.
“Go on, he needs to know!”
“Oh, all right. Harry, come here.”
For the second time Ron withdrew his arm from
around Hermione and stumped over to the door.
“C’mon.”
“Why?” Harry asked, following Ron out of the room
onto the tiny landing.
“Descendo, ” muttered Ron, pointing his wand at the
low ceiling. A hatch opened right over their heads and
a ladder slid down to their feet. A horrible, halfsucking, half-moaning sound came out of the square
hole, along with an unpleasant smell like open drains.
“That’s your ghoul, isn’t it?” asked Harry, who had
never actually met the creature that sometimes
disrupted the nightly silence.
“Yeah, it is,” said Ron, climbing the ladder. “Come
and have a look at him.”
Harry followed Ron up the few short steps into the
tiny attic space. His head and shoulders were in the
room before he caught sight of the creature curled up a few feet from him,
fast asleep in the gloom with its
large mouth wide open.
“But it … it looks … do ghouls normally wear
pajamas?”
“No,” said Ron. “Nor have they usually got red hair or
that number of pustules.”
Harry contemplated the thing, slightly revolted. It was
human in shape and size, and was wearing what, now
that Harry’s eyes became used to the darkness, was
clearly an old pair of Ron’s pajamas. He was also sure
that ghouls were generally rather slimy and bald,
rather than distinctly hairy and covered in angry
purple blisters.
“He’s me, see?” said Ron.
“No,” said Harry. “I don’t.”
“I’ll explain it back in my room, the smell’s getting to
me,” said Ron. They climbed back down the ladder,
which Ron returned to the ceiling, and rejoined
Hermione, who was still sorting books.
“Once we’ve left, the ghoul’s going to come and live
down here in my room,” said Ron. “I think he’s really
looking forward to it — well, it’s hard to tell, because
all he can do is moan and drool — but he nods a lot
when you mention it. Anyway, he’s going to be me
with spattergroit. Good, eh?”
Harry merely looked his confusion.
“It is!” said Ron, clearly frustrated that Harry had not
grasped the brilliance of the plan. “Look, when we
three don’t turn up at Hogwarts again, everyone’s
going to think Hermione and I must be with you,
right? Which means the Death Eaters will go straight
for our families to see if they’ve got information on
where you are.”
“But hopefully it’ll look like I’ve gone away with Mum
and Dad; a lot of Muggle-borns are talking about
going into hiding at the moment,” said Hermione.
“We can’t hide my whole family, it’ll look too fishy and
they can’t all leave their jobs,” said Ron. “So we’re
going to put out the story that I’m seriously ill with
spattergroit, which is why I can’t go back to school. If
anyone comes calling to investigate, Mum or Dad can
show them the ghoul in my bed, covered in pustules.
Spattergroit’s really contagious, so they’re not going
to want to go near him. It won’t matter that he can’t
say anything, either, because apparently you can’t
once the fungus has spread to your uvula.”
“And your mum and dad are in on this plan?” asked
Harry.
“Dad is. He helped Fred and George transform the
ghoul. Mum … well, you’ve seen what she’s like. She
won’t accept we’re going till we’ve gone.”
There was silence in the room, broken only by gentle
thuds as Hermione continued to throw books onto
one pile or the other. Ron sat watching her, and Harry
looked from one to the other, unable to say anything.
The measures they had taken to protect their families
made him realize, more than anything else could have
done, that they really were going to come with him
and that they knew exactly how dangerous that would
be. He wanted to tell them what that meant to him,
but he simply could not find words important enough.
Through the silence came the muffled sounds of Mrs.
Weasley shouting from four floors below.
“Ginny’s probably left a speck of dust on a poxy
napkin ring,” said Ron. “I dunno why the Delacours
have got to come two days before the wedding.”
“Fleur’s sister’s a bridesmaid, she needs to be here for
the rehearsal, and she’s too young to come on her
own,” said Hermione, as she pored indecisively over
Break with a Banshee.
“Well, guests aren’t going to help Mum’s stress levels,”
said Ron.
“What we really need to decide,” said Hermione,
tossing Defensive Magical Theory into the bin without
a second glance and picking up An Appraisal of
Magical Education in Europe, “is where we’re going
after we leave here. I know you said you wanted to go
to Godric’s Hollow first, Harry, and I understand why,
but … well … shouldn’t we make the Horcruxes our
priority?”
“If we knew where any of the Horcruxes were, I’d
agree with you,” said Harry, who did not believe that
Hermione really understood his desire to return to
Godric’s Hollow. His parents’ graves were only part of
the attraction: He had a strong, though inexplicable,
feeling that the place held answers for him. Perhaps it
was simply because it was there that he had survived
Voldemort’s Killing Curse; now that he was facing the
challenge of repeating the feat, Harry was drawn to
the place where it had happened, wanting to
understand.
“Don’t you think there’s a possibility that Voldemort’s
keeping a watch on Godric’s Hollow?” Hermione
asked. “He might expect you to go back and visit your
