“Yes, m-my Lord,” gasped a small man halfway down
the table, who had been sitting so low in his chair
that it had appeared, at first glance, to be
unoccupied. Now he scrambled from his seat and
scurried from the room, leaving nothing behind him
but a curious gleam of silver.
“As I was saying,” continued Voldemort, looking again
at the tense faces of his followers, “I understand
better now. I shall need, for instance, to borrow a
wand from one of you before I go to kill Potter.”
The faces around him displayed nothing but shock;
he might have announced that he wanted to borrow
one of their arms.
“No volunteers?” said Voldemort. “Let’s see … Lucius,
I see no reason for you to have a wand anymore.”
Lucius Malfoy looked up. His skin appeared yellowish
and waxy in the firelight, and his eyes were sunken
and shadowed. When he spoke, his voice was hoarse.
“My Lord?”
“Your wand, Lucius. I require your wand.”
“I …”
Malfoy glanced sideways at his wife. She was staring
straight ahead, quite as pale as he was, her long
blonde hair hanging down her back, but beneath the
table her slim fingers closed briefly on his wrist. At
her touch, Malfoy put his hand into his robes,
withdrew a wand, and passed it along to Voldemort,
who held it up in front of his red eyes, examining it
closely.
“What is it?”
“Elm, my Lord,” whispered Malfoy.
“And the core?”
“Dragon — dragon heartstring.”
“Good,” said Voldemort. He drew out his own wand
and compared the lengths. Lucius Malfoy made an
involuntary movement; for a fraction of a second, it
seemed he expected to receive Voldemort’s wand in
exchange for his own. The gesture was not missed by
Voldemort, whose eyes widened maliciously.
“Give you my wand, Lucius? My wand?”
Some of the throng sniggered.
“I have given you your liberty, Lucius, is that not
enough for you? But I have noticed that you and your
family seem less than happy of late. … What is it
about my presence in your home that displeases you,
Lucius?”
“Nothing — nothing, my Lord!”
“Such lies, Lucius …”
The soft voice seemed to hiss on even after the cruel
mouth had stopped moving. One or two of the wizards
barely repressed a shudder as the hissing grew
louder; something heavy could be heard sliding
across the floor beneath the table.
The huge snake emerged to climb slowly up
Voldemort’s chair. It rose, seemingly endlessly, and
came to rest across Voldemort’s shoulders: its neck
the thickness of a man’s thigh; its eyes, with their
vertical slits for pupils, unblinking. Voldemort stroked
the creature absently with long thin fingers, still
looking at Lucius Malfoy.
“Why do the Malfoys look so unhappy with their lot?
Is my return, my rise to power, not the very thing they
professed to desire for so many years?”
“Of course, my Lord,” said Lucius Malfoy. His hand
shook as he wiped sweat from his upper lip. “We did
desire it — we do.”
To Malfoy’s left, his wife made an odd, stiff nod, her
eyes averted from Voldemort and the snake. To his
right, his son, Draco, who had been gazing up at the
inert body overhead, glanced quickly at Voldemort
and away again, terrified to make eye contact.
“My Lord,” said a dark woman halfway down the
table, her voice constricted with emotion, “it is an
honor to have you here, in our family’s house. There
can be no higher pleasure.”
She sat beside her sister, as unlike her in looks, with
her dark hair and heavily lidded eyes, as she was in
bearing and demeanor; where Narcissa sat rigid and
impassive, Bellatrix leaned toward Voldemort, for
mere words could not demonstrate her longing for
closeness.
“No higher pleasure,” repeated Voldemort, his head
tilted a little to one side as he considered Bellatrix.
“That means a great deal, Bellatrix, from you.”
Her face flooded with color; her eyes welled with tears
of delight.
“My Lord knows I speak nothing but the truth!”
“No higher pleasure … even compared with the happy
event that, I hear, has taken place in your family this
week?”
She stared at him, her lips parted, evidently confused.
“I don’t know what you mean, my Lord.”
“I’m talking about your niece, Bellatrix. And yours,
Lucius and Narcissa. She has just married the
werewolf, Remus Lupin. You must be so proud.”
There was an eruption of jeering laughter from
around the table. Many leaned forward to exchange
gleeful looks; a few thumped the table with their fists.
The great snake, disliking the disturbance, opened its
mouth wide and hissed angrily, but the Death Eaters
did not hear it, so jubilant were they at Bellatrix and
the Malfoys’ humiliation. Bellatrix’s face, so recently
flushed with happiness, had turned an ugly, blotchy
red.
“She is no niece of ours, my Lord,” she cried over the
outpouring of mirth. “We — Narcissa and I — have
never set eyes on our sister since she married the
Mudblood. This brat has nothing to do with either of
us, nor any beast she marries.”
“What say you, Draco?” asked Voldemort, and though
his voice was quiet, it carried clearly through the
catcalls and jeers. “Will you babysit the cubs?”
The hilarity mounted; Draco Malfoy looked in terror at
his father, who was staring down into his own lap,
then caught his mother’s eye. She shook her head
almost imperceptibly, then resumed her own deadpan
stare at the opposite wall.
“Enough,” said Voldemort, stroking the angry snake.
“Enough.”
And the laughter died at once.
“Many of our oldest family trees become a little
diseased over time,” he said as Bellatrix gazed at him,
breathless and imploring. “You must prune yours,
must you not, to keep it healthy? Cut away those
parts that threaten the health of the rest.”
“Yes, my Lord,” whispered Bellatrix, and her eyes
swam with tears of gratitude again. “At the first
chance!”
“You shall have it,” said Voldemort. “And in your
family, so in the world … we shall cut away the
canker that infects us until only those of the true
blood remain. …”
Voldemort raised Lucius Malfoy’s wand, pointed it
directly at the slowly revolving figure suspended over
the table, and gave it a tiny flick. The figure came to
life with a groan and began to struggle against
invisible bonds.
“Do you recognize our guest, Severus?” asked
Voldemort.
Snape raised his eyes to the upside-down face. All of
the Death Eaters were looking up at the captive now,
as though they had been given permission to show
curiosity. As she revolved to face the firelight, the
woman said in a cracked and terrified voice, “Severus!
Help me!”
“Ah, yes,” said Snape as the prisoner turned slowly
away again.
“And you, Draco?” asked Voldemort, stroking the
snake’s snout with his wand-free hand. Draco shook
his head jerkily. Now that the woman had woken, he
seemed unable to look at her anymore.
“But you would not have taken her classes,” said
Voldemort. “For those of you who do not know, we are
joined here tonight by Charity Burbage who, until
recently, taught at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and
Wizardry.”
There were small noises of comprehension around the
table. A broad, hunched woman with pointed teeth
cackled.
“Yes … Professor Burbage taught the children of
witches and wizards all about Muggles … how they
are not so different from us …”
One of the Death Eaters spat on the floor. Charity
Burbage revolved to face Snape again.
“Severus … please … please …”
“Silence,” said Voldemort, with another twitch of
Malfoy’s wand, and Charity fell silent as if gagged.
“Not content with corrupting and polluting the minds
of Wizarding children, last week Professor Burbage
wrote an impassioned defense of Mudbloods in the
Daily Prophet. Wizards, she says, must accept these
thieves of their knowledge and magic. The dwindling
of the purebloods is, says Professor Burbage, a most
desirable circumstance. … She would have us all
mate with Muggles … or, no doubt, werewolves. …”
Nobody laughed this time: There was no mistaking
the anger and contempt in Voldemort’s voice. For the
third time, Charity Burbage revolved to face Snape.
Tears were pouring from her eyes into her hair. Snape
looked back at her, quite impassive, as she turned
slowly away from him again.
“Avada Kedavra. ”
The flash of green light illuminated every corner of the
room. Charity fell, with a resounding crash, onto the
table below, which trembled and creaked. Several of
the Death Eaters leapt back in their chairs. Draco fell
out of his onto the floor.
“Dinner, Nagini,” said Voldemort softly, and the great
snake swayed and slithered from his shoulders onto
the polished wood.
Harry was bleeding. Clutching his right hand in his
left and swearing under his breath, he shouldered
open his bedroom door. There was a crunch of
breaking china: He had trodden on a cup of cold tea
that had been sitting on the floor outside his bedroom
door.
“What the — ?”
He looked around; the landing of number four, Privet
Drive, was deserted. Possibly the cup of tea was
Dudley’s idea of a clever booby trap. Keeping his
bleeding hand elevated, Harry scraped the fragments
of cup together with the other hand and threw them
into the already crammed bin just visible inside his
bedroom door. Then he tramped across to the
bathroom to run his finger under the tap.
It was stupid, pointless, irritating beyond belief that
he still had four days left of being unable to perform
magic … but he had to admit to himself that this
jagged cut in his finger would have defeated him. He
had never learned how to repair wounds, and now he
came to think of it — particularly in light of his
immediate plans — this seemed a serious flaw in his
magical education. Making a mental note to ask
Hermione how it was done, he used a large wad of
toilet paper to mop up as much of the tea as he could,
before returning to his bedroom and slamming the
door behind him.
Harry had spent the morning completely emptying his
school trunk for the first time since he had packed it
six years ago. At the start of the intervening school
years, he had merely skimmed off the topmost three
quarters of the contents and replaced or updated
them, leaving a layer of general debris at the bottom
— old quills, desiccated beetle eyes, single socks that
no longer fit. Minutes previously, Harry had plunged
his hand into this mulch, experienced a stabbing pain
in the fourth finger of his right hand, and withdrawn
it to see a lot of blood.
He now proceeded a little more cautiously. Kneeling
down beside the trunk again, he groped around in the
bottom and, after retrieving an old badge that
flickered feebly between Support CEDRIC DIGGORY
and POTTER STINKS, a cracked and worn-out
Sneakoscope, and a gold locket inside which a note
signed R.A.B. had been hidden, he finally discovered
the sharp edge that had done the damage. He
recognized it at once. It was a two-inch-long fragment
of the enchanted mirror that his dead godfather,
Sirius, had given him. Harry laid it aside and felt
cautiously around the trunk for the rest, but nothing
more remained of his godfather’s last gift except
powdered glass, which clung to the deepest layer of
debris like glittering grit.
Harry sat up and examined the jagged piece on which
he had cut himself, seeing nothing but his own bright
green eye reflected back at him. Then he placed the
fragment on top of that morning’s Daily Prophet,
which lay unread on the bed, and attempted to stem
the sudden upsurge of bitter memories, the stabs of
regret and of longing the discovery of the broken
mirror had occasioned, by attacking the rest of the
rubbish in the trunk.
It took another hour to empty it completely, throw
away the useless items, and sort the remainder in
piles according to whether or not he would need them
from now on. His school and Quidditch robes,
cauldron, parchment, quills, and most of his
textbooks were piled in a corner, to be left behind. He
wondered what his aunt and uncle would do with
them; burn them in the dead of night, probably, as if
they were the evidence of some dreadful crime. His
Muggle clothing, Invisibility Cloak, potion-making kit,
certain books, the photograph album Hagrid had once
given him, a stack of letters, and his wand had been
repacked into an old rucksack. In a front pocket were
the Marauder’s Map and the locket with the note
signed R.A.B. inside it. The locket was accorded this
place of honor not because it was valuable — in all
usual senses it was worthless — but because of what
it had cost to attain it.
This left a sizable stack of newspapers sitting on his
desk beside his snowy owl, Hedwig: one for each of
the days Harry had spent at Privet Drive this
summer.
He got up off the floor, stretched, and moved across to
his desk. Hedwig made no movement as he began to
flick through the newspapers, throwing them onto the
rubbish pile one by one. The owl was asleep, or else
faking; she was angry with Harry about the limited
amount of time she was allowed out of her cage at the
moment.